So we did now push our main branch to GitHub.
Now let's say we are developing a new feature or a bug fix
and therefore we are creating a second branch.
Let's say what we want to do here
is we want to group these paragraphs into a section.
It's of course a trivial change
and wouldn't require a separate branch,
but it's just a demo.
So here I want to create a separate branch
and therefore, just as you learned it before,
we can create such a branch with the git branch command.
Or if you want to checkout that branch immediately
by using git checkout -b
and then the name of that new branch.
And here I will simply name it
feat, short for feature, section.
If I hit Enter, this branch is created
and we automatically switched to it,
as it's also saying here.
And now we can make that change that should be made,
which in my case here simply means that I add this section
and I wrap this around these two paragraphs like this.
So that's my change now.
Again, a trivial change, but good enough for this demo.
Now after saving this file,
I want to stage this change
and I want to create a new commit, a new snapshot.
But I want do that in this separate branch
because maybe the feature isn't fully finished yet,
or for other reasons, we're not quite ready
to merge it into the main branch.
Therefore, again in the terminal,
I will stage all files or just the index html file.
Does not matter, since it's the only file that's changed.
And then I create my commit,
where I say "added section."
That sounds like a good description for this change.
So now we added this commit to this branch
to the feat-section branch.
And now I also want to push this branch
to my remote repository
because I want to have that code on GitHub as well
so that it's backed up.
I could work on it from different machines and so on.
Therefore, what I'll do is I will git push to my origin,
so to this remote GitHub repository,
and I'll push this feat-section branch.
It's the same command as we used it before.
And alternatively, we could also use this
set upstream approach from before,
which we used for the main branch,
for this feat-section branch as well
so that in the future, all we have to do is run git push,
whilst being in that branch locally.
Here I'll use this slightly longer form though,
confirm this, and this now pushes this code
to this remote repository.
Now on this remote repository,
we should immediately see a little message here.
And if you reload this page,
this dropdown here now also shows you this second branch.
And on GitHub, you can then also switch
between these branches.
We can, for example, select this branch
and if we have it selected,
in this code which we can browse on GitHub,
we see this change with the section being added.
If on the other hand, I've switched back to the main branch,
we see that for the index html file,
this section is not there.
And that's by the way, all that's important.
On GitHub, you can browse this code.
You can even edit this code from GitHub
and merge it with your other code from there.
We're not going to do this here, but you could do that.
You might also notice this Compare and pull request button,
which I have here,
and I'll get back to pull requests a little bit later
because this is a key GitHub feature,
but I'll get back to it in the future.
So now I have my branch here on GitHub.
If I am now ready to merge this feat-section branch
into my main branch, we could do this from inside GitHub,
but I will do it locally here
by again checking out my main branch
and then running git merge feat-section.
Now this is merged automatically again
and we get a little summary here.
And now of course, I can run git push
to push this updated main branch,
which has these merged changes, to GitHub.
Here, by the way, no separate commit was created
and I didn't have to confirm or enter any commit message
after performing the merge
because Git was able to perform this merge
by simply appending this new commit to the other commits
instead of creating a new commit.
It simply depends on the complexity of changes you have
and whether there are any clashes
that must be resolved by Git,
whether you have to create a separate commit when merging,
or if a commit from another branch can simply be appended
to the commits of the main branch.
So now I performed this merge
and I pushed my updated main branch
and therefore of course,
this is also reflected on GitHub here in the main branch.
If I inspect index html, I also see this section here.
But that's how we can also push multiple branches to GitHub.
By the way, if you then have a branch on GitHub
which you don't need anymore, like this feat-section branch,
you can also delete it from there
by clicking on View all branches here.
And then there, you see this feat-section branch,
and if you click this trash icon, it will be deleted.
You could now also restore it,
but now it's gone from GitHub
because we don't need that branch there anymore.
It still exists locally,
as you see if you run git branch.
But of course, there you can also delete it
with the command I already showed you earlier in the course.
With this command here.
So that's how we can work with multiple branches in GitHub.